---
layout: narrative
title: Gardening
folio: 105r
annotation: no
author:
mode: annotated
editor: GR8975 Seminar Participants
rights: Public Domain
categories: [gardening]
tags: [wood, sap]
---

 <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f215.image" target="_blank">105r</a> - - - - - </div>   
## Gardening

 
<span class="activity"></span>To graft, it is necessary to take the new growth that was produced within the year by the <span class="plant">tree</span> you wish to graft. And cut off a branch in which you can see that beside the place where the leaves join the stem, there are little buttons we call buds, the initial stages of a sprout. With dexterity you must, with a very sharp <span class="tool">pen—knife</span>, cut in the shape of a graft a small bit of the skin of the <span class="plant">tree</span>, which contains a bud or a sprout with the leaf, as you can see in B. Then on the tender <span class="material">wood</span>, which is full of <span class="material">sap</span>, and on which you wish to graft, cut quickly two lines as you can see , then add in the middle a slit thusly.<span class="figure"></span> Then with the point of your <span class="tool">pen—knife</span> separate the bark from the <span class="plant">tree</span>, and open it from the slit in the middle, and having neatly lodged your graft so that nothing is sticking out, only the sprout, binding everything well and wrap the whole thing with a bit of <span class="tool">linen</span> or <span class="tool">soft string</span>. In this way, there will be nothing uncovered but the leaf, which in three or 4 <span class="time">days</span> will indicate whether the graft has taken hold, by being green. Keep your graft in this way for seven or eight <span class="time">days</span>. Then unwrap it, and join it to the bark, keeping the sprout itself straight, and then rewrap the whole thing gently, but not as strongly as before. And if there is any growth, leave it some room to grow and then three or four times
 <span class="figure"></span> <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f216.image" target="_blank">105v</a> - - - - - </div> 
<span class="activity"></span>Then, when the graft has taken hold, cut the top of the <span class="plant">tree</span>, which is above your <span class="plant">tree</span>, three or four <span class="unit">fingers</span> above the graft for the first time. Then, closer so that it serves. But be advised that when you do your initial grafting there should be no small hole at the back of your sprout, because this means that root is broken and your graft will never take. Therefore make sure the back is in tact. This type of grafting can be done from <span class="time">mid—May</span> onwards, because the <span class="plant">trees</span> have budded and made new growth, until the beginning of <span class="time">August</span> when the <span class="plant">trees</span> are full of <span class="material">sap</span>. <span class="plant">Almond trees</span> which are naturally drier lose their <span class="material">sap</span> earlier. Those who want to graft onto them the <span class="plant">almond trees <span class="foreign">mericotons</span></span>, <span class="plant">apricots</span> and <span class="plant">nut—tree</span> grafts, which are the best, should do so usually in <span class="time">January</span>. <span class="plant">Nut trees</span>, such as <span class="plant"><span class="foreign">perches mericotons</span></span> should be grafted <span class="foreign">en fente</span>. It is said that <span class="plant">trees</span> graft by the shield—graft method take longer to bear fruit.
 