---
layout: narrative
title: Crocum ferry
folio: 132v
annotation: no
author:
mode: annotated
editor: GR8975 Seminar Participants
rights: Public Domain
categories: []
tags: [vinegar, Sand, sand, silver, steel, needle filings]
---

 <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f270.item.r=" target="_blank">132v</a> - - - - - </div> 
## Crocum ferry

 
 After I processed it with <span class="material">vinegar</span> and reddened under heat, I had it ground very finely on the porphyry, until there could be no ruggedness felt under the nails. Then I soaked it in very good vinegar for 2 or 3 days, stirring the mixture several times a day. Then I boiled it and made it red—hot in a pot, and put the whole thing into an air furnace. I obtained a mass full of eyes, but that crumbled finely between the fingers. I mixed half as much as stone alum in the sand. I diluted the sand very thinly, and molded a very small lizard, which molded very cleanly and finely. Crocum ferry does not make the mold harder, but makes it firmer. When your mold is soft and fat under your nail, it means that the crocum is good, very fine and well prepared. You can add any quantity of crocum, your mold will not be damaged because it is a friend of gold. I think it would be the same with silver. And in order that molds made with it do not crack, make it with needle filings. 
 
> *at left top  margin of folio 132v*
> 
> <span class="material">Sand</span> is better made with distilled <span class="material">vinegar</span>. 
 
> *at left middle  margin of folio 132v*
> 
> You can add this <span class="material">sand</span> to the molds you want to use to cast <span class="material">silver</span>, because it make molds firmer, and when you scratch it, you will find it a bit rougher than the other molds not made from this <span class="material">sand</span>. You mold very clean with this <span class="material">sand</span>.
 
> *at left bottom  margin of folio 132v*
> 
> You can use this one for all molds, because it prevents them from cracking and bursting when heated. This <span class="material">sand</span> withstands several casts for molding flat medals. <span class="material">Sand</span> from <span class="material">steel</span> or <span class="material">needle filings</span> is redder and better. 
 