---
layout: narrative
title: Casting gold
folio: 135v
annotation: no
author:
mode: annotated
editor: GR8975 Seminar Participants
rights: Public Domain
categories: []
tags: [gold, borax, coal, verdigris, saltpeter, sal ammoniac, sand, crocum, Gold, aqua forte, brass, lead]
---

 <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f276.item.r=" target="_blank">135v</a> - - - - - </div>" 
## Casting <span class="material">gold</span>

 
 Take a <span class="tool">crusol</span> that can contain a certain amount, as you wish to place roughly crushed <span class="material">borax</span> into it. Place [the borax] at the bottom and then the <span class="material">gold</span> on top of it. Arrange the <span class="material">coal</span> in the forge in such a way that the wind of the bellow will blow above the <span class="tool">crusol</span> and no on its side as it would cool it down and would not heat it enough. Also, make sure it is three good fingers away from the wall of the forge so that it is quite surrounded by coal. Allow the <span class="tool">crusol</span> to anneal until it is quite red. Then, have your boy strongly blow the bellow with long pushes, as in this manner it heats it better. Meanwhile, once the <span class="material">gold</span> will be melted, blow a small bellow above it. Because [otherwise] the <span class="material">gold</span> would turn sour and would acquire some kind of coat. As long as there will be some swirling smoke as you blow this way, it means that it is not soft enough for the cast. Therefore, uncover the melting pot and without displacing it and without stopping the bellow, tilt it towards you so you may well see what is inside. Throw a ferue of <span class="material">borax</span> in it and blow wind towards it with the small bellow in a jerky fashion. Should there be <span class="material">coal</span> inside, blow a bit stronger to make them come out. And if the <span class="material">gold</span> still smokes and swirls, add <span class="material">borax</span> again and blow above it. Beware that it is still sour and not soft enough, it will show a coat when you blow it as if it had cooled down. By contrast, if it does not show this sign, it is soft enough. Then, blow strongly so that it [the gold] is quite heated and once you think it is hot enough, throw colour on top of it in the <span class="tool">crusol</span> and the colour should be composed as following: <span class="material">verdigris</span>, <span class="material">saltpeter</span>, <span class="material">sal ammoniac</span>, and a bit of borax. And continue blowing with the small bellows, and the <span class="material">gold</span> will turn shiny like 
 
> *at left top  margin of folio 135v*
> 
> If you cast in <span class="material">gold</span> some piece of important [dimensions], lute your mold with the same <span class="material">sand</span> or put <span class="material">crocum</span> on it. 
 
> *at left top  margin of folio 135v*
> 
> If you wish to cast some large work, or of important [dimensions], create at the bottom or at an extremity of the forge a vented furnace where you may hold your mold in the <span class="material">sand</span> so red. 
 
> *at left middle  margin of folio 135v*
> 
> One may cast two or three <span class="unit">pounds</span> of <span class="material">gold</span>. 
 <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f277.item.r=" target="_blank">136r</a> - - - - - </div> 
 a mirror. And once you will want to [start] casting, put a bit more colour in and let it rest a little, still blowing wind with both the small and the large bellows. Finally, place your mold quite red between the small molds or in a <span class="tool">crusol</span> full of <span class="material">sand</span> quite hot and [start] casting. And once it will have stuck, you may, if you wish, throw it into water as <span class="material">gold</span> does not get damaged like tin which breaks. 
 
 To melt <span class="material">gold</span> bullion, there is no need to blow above [the crusol] with the small bellow. 
 
 For large works, the <span class="tool">crusol</span> made of <span class="material">sand</span> has to be placed in a wind oven so that it is all red at the end of the furnace. 
 
 <span class="material">Gold</span>, when exposed to wind or when forged becomes black. But a bit of <span class="material">aqua forte</span> removes [the black] instantly. 
 
 If you have to forge a work made of <span class="material">gold</span> on <span class="material">brass</span>, as is done on small statues, put a <span class="material">lead</span> sheet between the <span class="material">gold</span> and the <span class="material">brass</span>, and rather than anneal it and put it back in the fire, dip it in the <span class="material">aqua forte</span> and it will be soft. 
 
 It is enough for the cast to be of the same thickness as the medal, that it from the middle of the cast, up to the medal. But if the medal is very thick, one should not thicken the cast as a result, because a thick cast never comes out well. It may be done large to embrace the medal as much as possible. 
 