---
layout: narrative
title: Casting with lead and tin
folio: 139r
annotation: no
author:
mode: annotated
editor: GR8975 Seminar Participants
rights: Public Domain
categories: []
tags: [lead, tin, sand, charcoal, resin, bismuth, copper, iron, paper, cardboard, gold, hard wood]
---

 <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f283.image" target="_blank">139r</a> - - - - - </div> 
## Casting with <span class="material">lead</span> and <span class="material">tin</span>

  
  The way I have done it  for <span class="animal">lizards</span> and <span class="animal">serpents</span> is with two <span class="unit">℥</span> of pure <span class="material">tin</span> for one <span class="unit">lb</span>. of unrefined <span class="material">lead</span> that is impure.The mold is made out of the aforementioned <span class="material">sand</span>, common for all metals, when it is reheated, leave it to cool until you can put your finger in it without causing a breach in the gate of the cast. As for the <span class="material">lead</span>, it is melted in a <span class="tool">crucible</span> with a bellows' fire until both the <span class="tool">crucible</span> and the <span class="material">lead</span> are red. When it gets to that state, cleanse it anew with <span class="material">charcoal</span> or with a specially made <span class="tool">scraper</span> or with the pufts of the little bellows. This done, leave it to rest in it red state and you can even reheat it, then if you want, throw in a bit of <span class="material">resin</span> to burn away the filth. However, some think it best not to put any in because it leaves filth. But when they are ready to cast, they cannot forget to also thrown in a bean—size quantity of <span class="material">bismuth</span> for each pound of <span class="material">lead</span>. And it must be as red as the melted metal when it enters the mold. If the mold is large, it is much better to put in in a <span class="tool">press</span> so that they join well and so that the <span class="material">lead</span> does not come out of the mold. However, should this happen, and that for the first, second or third time your mold does not fill up, cast heartily because for as long as your metal is red it will mix and join with the other one and will come out very neatly like the main one. The same thing can be said for pure <span class="material">tin</span> used for thin things. And that way for doing pure <span class="material">tin</span> is one <span class="unit">℥</span> of new <span class="material">lead</span> for one <span class="unit">lb</span>. of the former. Large molds must be put in a press held tightly between two <span class="tool">layers of copper</span>, and then bury the whole thing in <span class="material">sand</span>, which is better than ashes, because being heavy, it will seal better. Otherwise large molds are prone to open because the metal is heavy. Some make square molds 
  <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f284.image" target="_blank">139v</a> - - - - - </div> 
are made of earth or blades of <span class="material">copper</span>, or <span class="material">iron</span>, or wood covered with white iron, in order to bury more easily these aforementioned molds between the thin <span class="tool">sheets of copper, estric or one of iron</span>. 
   
> *at left top  margin of folio 139v*
> 
>  When the metal is thick, you do not need to cast as hot as when it is thin. 
  
> *at top  margin of folio 139v*
> 
>  When you melt this often, it becomes sour and fragile because it has to be cast very hot and it makes it half—calicanated. Use new stuff. 
   
> *at left top  margin of folio 139v*
> 
> \+ 
 
> *at left top  margin of folio 139v*
> 
>  Note that If you want to cast with cuttlefish bone, they cannot be too warm because that would burn the cuttefish. For this effect, try <span class="material">paper</span>. It it becomes brown, it is enough, and it is good for casting, but if it blackens the <span class="material">paper</span>, then it is too hot.
 
> *at left bottom  margin of folio 139v*
> 
>  If you want to cast <span class="material">paper</span> with writing on it, make a mixture with half <span class="material">lead</span> and half <span class="material">tin</span>. As soon as it is melted, throw it between two pieces of <span class="material">cardboard</span> on a flat place that is level. And with a point or <span class="material">gold</span> or <span class="material">hard wood</span>, engrave on the left the writing that you want. And having poured the <span class="material">lead</span> onto the <span class="material">cardboard</span>, press onto it the other piece of <span class="material">cardboard</span>.
  