---
layout: narrative
title: Molding grasshoppers and things too thin
folio: 142v
annotation: no
author:
mode: annotated
editor: GR8975 Seminar Participants
rights: Public Domain
categories: []
tags: [melted, butter, butter, wheat, oil, Wax, gum, sand, noyau, cinnabar, mixed, with, oil, charcoal]
---

 <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f290.image" target="_blank">142v</a> - - - - - </div> 
## Molding grasshoppers and things too thin

  
 If you have to mold a piece of written—on paper that is too thin, after you have done the first cast and it has set, give a little thickness to the reverse of your paper with <span class="material">melted butter</span>, which is the most appropriate means there is, & for strengthening the wings of either a <span class="animal">butterfly</span> or a <span class="animal">grasshopper</span>, or any delicate part of an animal to which you need to <span class="activity">give thickness</span>. But take heed to apply this melted butter under the wing or in whichever place it will not be seen. For giving thickness to a <span class="plant">pansy</span> or other flowers, <span class="material">butter</span> is not good, but rather <span class="material">wheat oil</span>, which is soon dry & holds firm. <span class="material">Wax</span> would not be appropriate here for it is too hot once melted, and it makes the thing to which it is applied contract. But butter is amiable and handleable. 
 
> *position: left-top*
> 
> If you write on paper or on common carton and your letters are made with <span class="material">gum</span>, the moisture of the <span class="tool">clay plate</span> (?) or the wet (?) <span class="material">sand</span> for a <span class="material">noyau</span> will moisten your letters and undo them. Write therefore with <span class="material">cinnabar mixed with oil</span>, on oiled & stamped (?) paper. 
  
> *position: left-middle*
> 
>  \+ Reheat your molds with <span class="material">charcoal</span> firstly lit in the forge, so that the fire is not too hot and does not break the molds. And do not fire as strongly where the mold is thin as where it is thick. 
 