---
layout: narrative
title: Toad
folio: 143r
annotation: no
author:
mode: annotated
editor: GR8975 Seminar Participants
rights: Public Domain
categories: []
tags: [wax]
---

 <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f291.image" target="_blank">143r</a> - - - - - </div> 
## Toad

 
 Having been molded, you can take it out it without burning it, because it releases easilyfrom the mold. Choose the biggest and the lumpiest <span class="animal">toads</span>. Because they contain a lot of metal, it is best to mold them hollow, since they turn out better. You could make your cast in one great piece, but it would be troublesome to cut. It is best to do it in three or 4 parts, which will be thicker close to the animal, and include the most amount of edge that is close to the cast/mold. Make as well some casting conduits all the way from the end of the cast,
 <span class="figure"></span> 
> *position: left-bottom*
> 
>  Let the mold cool rather than opening it, even for thick things. 
 <div class="folio" align="center">- - - - - <a href="http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f292.image" target="_blank">143v</a> - - - - - </div> 
 from one leg to another, so that the spread out limbs are in connection with one another due to the aforesaid casting conduits, which you will start in the waxless round parts that you have put at the edge of the legs to attract the metal. In this way, because you are casting in <span class="material">wax</span>, there is no danger chipping any part of the molded animal. It's quicker to make the wax casting conduits thus, because in this way you can cast the second mold after the first, rather than wait to do them the conduits after the mold has been recooked, because then, if possible, you will need to have everything ready. You need to heat well, and even redden the molds where there are wax conduits so that they melt and leave nothing inside. 
 